---
url:
date: 
---
# [[2025-02-26-Alerting]]

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

Guest:: "Name"

## Pre-show checklist

- [x] Create a new `.md` file and copy this template into it. Check things off as you work through it.
- [x] Update [Grafana Office Hours Readme](projects/Grafana%20Office%20Hours/Grafana%20Office%20Hours%20Readme.md) to add the new file to the `Upcoming` section.
- [x] Contact the guest and tell them about Office Hours.
	> At Grafana Labs, we do a livestream called [Grafana Office Hours](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uk7NoagbJ28&list=PLDGkOdUX1Ujrrse-cdj20RRah9hyHdxBu), where we have guests on to talk about how to use Grafana, observability, or visualization. I saw your [blog post/video/post] on [source] and I think it would be great to have you on the show to share your experience about [topic].
	Office Hours is an hour-long live conversation that is streamed to the [Grafana YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/@grafana). It's very casual, and you can also share your screen if you'd like to do a demo (not required). If you'd like to join, I'd love to have you! 
- [x] If the guest agrees, choose a date for the Office Hours session. Check [the Monday board](https://grafana-labs.monday.com/boards/5724430500) to make sure no other livestream is scheduled for that day. Add a card for that date and time to save the spot.
- [ ] Confirm the time (16:00 CEST on Friday is generally best) with the guest. Ask them for a photo you can use for promotion, or ask for permission to use their profile pic on social media.
- [x] Invite them to the Grafana Office Hours calendar invite (choose "this instance only", not the whole series). Schedule the invite for 15 minutes before the stream (to do a tech check) until 15 minutes after the stream (to debrief). The invite should be for 1.5 hours total. Explain this to them.
- [ ] Create a thumbnail on [Canva](https://canva.com) using the Grafana Office Hours thumbnail format. Use [thumbsup.tv](https://thumbsup.tv) to check how the thumbnail looks on different devices. [Here are some guidelines for creating thumbnails](https://notes.nicolevanderhoeven.com/Create+engaging+thumbnails).
- [ ] Schedule the broadcast on [Streamyard](https://streamyard.com), and select the Grafana YouTube channel as the destination.
	- [ ] In the title, include the instance of Office Hours, i.e. `What's new in Grafana 10? (Grafana Office Hours #01)`. Including the number or the date (such as `All About Explore Logs (Loki Community Call November 2024`) helps people remember it.
	- [ ] Add the standard description as per previous Grafana Office Hours shows. Check the video description and add guests' contact details.
- [ ] Get familiar with how to use Streamyard. [Here's a crash course on how to use Streamyard](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hb8FeoO88zinZu638MfnBwGctyspgfm0/view?usp=drive_link) and [here's a second recorded call with the Grafana Campfire hosts](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hdX4SvDM67KRwGkzA6HWEETK1-gy8iUk/view?usp=drive_link) to get them onboarded with Streamyard. These include how to create the stream on Streamyard.
- [ ] Get the Streamyard invite link and put it in the "location" of the calendar invite to the guest.
- [ ] Get the YouTube link to the show. Put the link on this page, in the URL property above.
- [ ] Create an event and announce it [on the Grafana Meetup page](https://www.meetup.com/grafana-friends-virtual-meetup-group/).
- [ ] Schedule posts on socials just when the show begins to say "We're live now!" [Buffer](https://buffer.com/) is a good free tool to use for this. Set it up for your socials and be sure to tag/mention the official Grafana account-- they'll usually boost/repost it if you do.
- [ ] Schedule a Slack message on the internal Grafana workspace (in `#community`, `#content-video`, `#video-offsite-2025-futurism`, and anywhere else you think it might be relevant). Yes this is excessive. Let's change this process!
- [ ] Schedule a Slack message on the public Grafana Slack workspace (in the appropriate channel, such as `#loki` or `#announcements`).
- [ ] Add your call to the Community Calendar (ask David, Richi, Nicole, and Usman).
- [ ] Think of any reference links you might want to give the audience. Add it to the YouTube description.

## Talking points

> Enumerate talking points for the show. It's better to keep these as bullet points to encourage a more casual, rather than scripted, conversation.

- Intro
	- *Hello and welcome to Grafana Office Hours. I'm `<name>`, a `<position>` at Grafana Labs and today, we're going to talk about `<topic>`.*
- Announcements
	- KubeCon London in April
		- Tom and Jay: [Logs, Metrics, Traces, and Mayhem: An Interactive Observability Adventure Game](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/program/schedule/)
		- Nicole: [Asimov's Zeroth Law of Robotics: Observability for AI](https://events.linuxfoundation.org/kubecon-cloudnativecon-europe/program/schedule/)
		- 6 other talks by Grafanistas	
	- Loki 3.4 released
	- GrafanaCon in May
- Introduce guest (George Robinson)
	- Who are you?
	- What do you do?
	- How long have you been using Grafana/other project?
- Lets talk the basics of Alerting and Recording Rules
	- What's an alert?
		- rule that is continuously evaluated at a frequerncy or interval that you choose that is looking for condition. When the condition is met, the alert fires. Idea: continuously running query whose parameters you can set.
	- What are alerts used for in Loki?
	- What are recording rules used for in Loki?
		- Saving the result of computationally extensive Loki queries
		- What's different about Loki recording rules? They translate logs into metrics unlike Mimir/Prometheus
	- You use the recording rule to calculate the metric that you want to alert on.
	- What component of Loki handles alerting and recording rules?
		- Ruler
		- You identify a group, a series of rules, and you can say how frequently those rules are evaluated.
	- Do you still need an alert manager?
	- How does alerting with Loki differ for Cloud vs OSS users?
	- When is it better to use Grafana Managed Alerts vs the ruler?
	- What methods are there for setting up alerts and recording rules?
	- What is the Lokitool is this the best way to set up alerts and recording rules?
- Alerting Rules
    - Whart are the most common alerting rules?
    - When creating an aleting rule, what are the most important things to consider? (labels, time range, etc)
    - Is there a way to test alerting rules before deploying them?
    - What are some common mistakes people make when creating alerting rules?
    - How do you troubleshoot alerting rules?
    - How do you know if an alert is working?
    - Are there ways to aggregate multiple Loki alerts into a single notification?
- Recording Rules
    - What are the most common recording rules?
    - Are there any performance considerations to consider when creating recording rules?
    - What are some common mistakes people make when creating recording rules?
- Ruler
    - Do you need to scale the ruler or should one replica be enough?
    - Is the ruler stateful or stateless?
    - What is the ruler sharding strategy? Does this help with sorting expensive queries?
- Grafana Managed Alerts vs Datasource Managed Alerts (DMA)
	- GMA has its own Alertmanager built in. If you don't want to deploy separate Alertmanager components built in, this is better. With Loki you have to use the ruler and also Alertmanager
	- Open sourced alerts don't support sharding, whereas the Mimir and Loki rulers do. DMA can be a challenge - you can split your rules manually yourself.
- Community Questions (From Common Room)
    - [x] (Matt Browne) is anyone aware of what might cause loki recording rules that you define in grafana to disappear? Is there a way to recover recording rules?
    - [x] (sitilge) I'm trying to figure out why my Loki setup is not running recording rules and not sending the resulting metrics to the Prometheus remote write endpoint. The rules do get added to the /rules directory by the sidecar container, but I don't see anything related in the logs of the loki container in the loki-backend pod or the loki-sc-rules container, even after enabling debug logging for both. Any ideas on how to troubleshoot this?
    - [x] (Andreas Jägle) How to include log lines into the alert notifications? (maybe just a few samples, without modifying/complicating the alert condition itself). exa: show logs causing the alert on level=error.
	- [x] (synchroii) Alerting in Multi-Tenant environments. I run Loki ingesting logs from multiple clusters. Each cluster is identical but hosted in different zones/regions and each have a tenant id. At the moment, I need to create one alert per each cluster (x20) because the Ruler component does not support multi-tenancy,Are there any plans to support multi-tenant queries in the Ruler component?
- Outro
	- If people want to learn more about this topic, where should they go?
	- 

### Just before the show

> Here are some points to discuss with the guest in the 15 minutes before the stream begins.

- [ ] How do you pronounce your name?
- [ ] What are your pronouns?
- [ ] We will be using the talking points, but we don't have to be strict about it. We don't have to go through all of them, or follow a specific order. They're only there to make us comfortable.
- [ ] Does anyone want to share their screen? We can do that now, and I can show you how that works
- [ ] We'll be streaming to YouTube.
- [ ] You'll be able to see comments, but if you have links, I have to paste it into the private chat.
- [ ] You can also use the private chat if you need to say something, but you can also just say it out loud.
- [ ] If at any point you aren't comfortable talking about something, please either say so or let me know in the private chat, and I'll pivot away from that topic.
- [ ] Afterwards, we'll say goodbye to the stream, but please stay on past that so we can debrief.
- [ ] Just in case I disconnect... stall for a minute and I'll be right back.

## Post-show checklist

- [ ] Add timestamps to the video (at least four).
- [ ] Add any links shared to the description of the video.
- [ ] Add YouTube cards when relevant to certain points during the video.
- [ ] Add the video to video playlists that make sense (at the very least, the "Grafana Office Hours" one.)
- [ ] Download all videos for the recording on Streamyard and upload it [to this shared drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1sLnnYzmphet7K7QwogcZrYDI-Re07HS4) in the appropriate folder.
- [ ] Think about how you could repurpose this content. [This Loki Community Call](https://youtube.com/live/XJMQbEuBeMc) on Explore Logs was turned into [these](https://youtube.com/shorts/6RfI5UeJo08) [two shorts](https://youtube.com/shorts/jx1DATkGIz4) (*Short - Grafana Cloud Explore Apps for no-code querying of Loki, Mimir, Tempo, Pyroscope* and *Short - How to enable Explore Logs app for Grafana*) and [this shorter video](https://youtu.be/eXwE2vqLcyY) (*How to use the Explore Logs app for Grafana*) + docs.
- [ ] Update [Advocate Contributions sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LataDRRX4DZy8VnCiBDXmynjmpOJdibM7ek_uvpim4Y/edit?gid=0#gid=0) with your work.



### Timestamps

00:00:00 Introductions


### Reference links

