# 2025 / 01 / 29 - Introduction to the Loki Helm

[url](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lAr0GwuZHiw)

Hosts -  Nicole & Jay

Loki Helm Maintainers - Jan-Otto Kröpke, Quentin Bisson, Mike Timmerman


### Just before the show

> Here are some points to discuss with the guest in the 15 minutes before the stream begins.

- [x] How do you pronounce your name?
- [x] We will be using the talking points, but we don't have to be strict about it. We don't have to go through all of them, or follow a specific order. They're only there to make us comfortable.
- [x] Does anyone want to share their screen? We can do that now, and we can show you how that works.
- [x] We'll be streaming to YouTube.
- [x] You'll be able to see comments, but if you have links, we have to paste it into the private chat.
- [x] You can also use the private chat if you need to say something, but you can also just say it out loud.
- [x] If at any point you aren't comfortable talking about something, please either say so or let us know in the private chat, and we'll pivot away from that topic.
- [x] Afterwards, we'll say goodbye to the stream, but please stay on past that so we can debrief and upload the local recording.
- [ ] Just in case one of us disconnects... the rest should stall for a minute and we'll be right back.

## Talking points

* Introductions
* Setting the stage
* Sizing Loki and Scaling Loki
* Announcement: Loki Sizing Guide
* Monitoring Capacity of your Loki Cluster

### Introductions (3 mins)

* What is our topic for today?
* Nicole and Jay introduce themselves
* Introduce Loki Helm Maintainers

* How long have you all been using Helm in general for?
* What do you like and what do you dislike about Helm?
* Simulary how long have you been using Loki for and how do you currently use it?

### Introducing the Loki Helm

* For our new guests, what is the purpose of the Loki Helm?
* What are the main components of the Loki Helm?
* What deployment modes do we support in the Loki Helm? 

### Best practises for deploying Loki using the Loki Helm

* Is there any preperation you recommend doing before you start configuring the Loki Helm?
  - cluster preperation
  - Sizing
  - object storage
* If you are new to the Loki Helm what is the best way to structure your values.yaml?
  - deployment mode
  - compoenents
  - Loki config
* What are some of the common pitfalls you see people running into when using the Loki Helm?
* What are some of the best ways to test your Loki Helm configuration?

### Loki Helm contributions

* You all started reviewing PRs for the Loki helm I belive around 6.34.0. Since then what have been some of the biggest changes you have seen?
* When reviewing PRs what are some of the things you look for?
* What are some of challanges you see in the Loki Helms design?
* What are some of the improvments you are looking for in the future of the Loki Helm?
* The Loki helm has grown over the years, is there anything that you would recommend we remove or change in the future?


## Wrap up

* Huge thank you to Jan-Otto, Quentin, and Mike for joining us today!
* Current Loki Helm stats
* Where can people find you all?


## After the show

- [x] Add timestamps to the video (at least four).
- [x] Add any links shared to the description of the video.
- [x] Add the video to video playlists that make sense (at the very least, the "Loki Community Call" one.)

