# 2025 / 01 / 29 - Introduction to the Loki Helm

[url](https://youtube.com/live/ZqumpIXutXg)

Hosts -  Nicole & Jay

Loki Helm Maintainers - Jan-Otto Kröpke, Quentin Bisson, Mike Timmerman

## Pre-show checklist

- [x] Create a new `.md` file and copy this template into it. Check things off as you work through it.
- [x] Update [Grafana Office Hours Readme](projects/Grafana%20Office%20Hours/Grafana%20Office%20Hours%20Readme.md) to add the new file to the `Upcoming` section.
- [x] Contact the guest and tell them about Office Hours.
	> At Grafana Labs, we do a livestream called [Grafana Office Hours](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uk7NoagbJ28&list=PLDGkOdUX1Ujrrse-cdj20RRah9hyHdxBu), where we have guests on to talk about how to use Grafana, observability, or visualization. I saw your [blog post/video/post] on [source] and I think it would be great to have you on the show to share your experience about [topic].
	Office Hours is an hour-long live conversation that is streamed to the [Grafana YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/@grafana). It's very casual, and you can also share your screen if you'd like to do a demo (not required). If you'd like to join, I'd love to have you! 
- [x] If the guest agrees, choose a date for the Office Hours session. Check [the Monday board](https://grafana-labs.monday.com/boards/5724430500) to make sure no other livestream is scheduled for that day. Add a card for that date and time to save the spot.
- [x] Confirm the time (16:00 CEST on Friday is generally best) with the guest. Ask them for a photo you can use for promotion, or ask for permission to use their profile pic on social media.
- [x] Invite them to the Grafana Office Hours calendar invite (choose "this instance only", not the whole series). Schedule the invite for 15 minutes before the stream (to do a tech check) until 15 minutes after the stream (to debrief). The invite should be for 1.5 hours total. Explain this to them.
- [x] Create a thumbnail on [Canva](https://canva.com) using the Grafana Office Hours thumbnail format. Use [thumbsup.tv](https://thumbsup.tv) to check how the thumbnail looks on different devices. [Here are some guidelines for creating thumbnails](https://notes.nicolevanderhoeven.com/Create+engaging+thumbnails).
- [x] Schedule the broadcast on [Streamyard](https://streamyard.com), and select the Grafana YouTube channel as the destination.
	- [x] In the title, include the instance of Office Hours, i.e. `What's new in Grafana 10? (Grafana Office Hours #01)`. Including the number or the date (such as `All About Explore Logs (Loki Community Call November 2024`) helps people remember it.
	- [x] Add the standard description as per previous Grafana Office Hours shows. Check the video description and add guests' contact details.
- [x] Get familiar with how to use Streamyard. [Here's a crash course on how to use Streamyard](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hb8FeoO88zinZu638MfnBwGctyspgfm0/view?usp=drive_link) and [here's a second recorded call with the Grafana Campfire hosts](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1hdX4SvDM67KRwGkzA6HWEETK1-gy8iUk/view?usp=drive_link) to get them onboarded with Streamyard. These include how to create the stream on Streamyard.
- [x] Get the Streamyard invite link and put it in the "location" of the calendar invite to the guest.
- [x] Get the YouTube link to the show. Put the link on this page, in the URL property above.
- [x] Create an event and announce it [on the Grafana Meetup page](https://www.meetup.com/grafana-friends-virtual-meetup-group/).
- [x] Schedule posts on socials just when the show begins to say "We're live now!" [Buffer](https://buffer.com/) is a good free tool to use for this. Set it up for your socials and be sure to tag/mention the official Grafana account-- they'll usually boost/repost it if you do.
- [x] Schedule a Slack message on the internal Grafana workspace (in `#community`, `#content-video`, `#video-offsite-2025-futurism`, and anywhere else you think it might be relevant). Yes this is excessive. Let's change this process!
- [ ] Schedule a Slack message on the public Grafana Slack workspace (in the appropriate channel, such as `#loki` or `#announcements`).
- [x] Add your call to the Community Calendar (ask David, Richi, Nicole, and Usman).
- [x] Think of any reference links you might want to give the audience. Add it to the YouTube description.
### Just before the show

> Here are some points to discuss with the guest in the 15 minutes before the stream begins.

- [x] How do you pronounce your name?
- [x] We will be using the talking points, but we don't have to be strict about it. We don't have to go through all of them, or follow a specific order. They're only there to make us comfortable.
- [ ] Does anyone want to share their screen? We can do that now, and we can show you how that works.
- [ ] We'll be streaming to YouTube.
- [ ] You'll be able to see comments, but if you have links, we have to paste it into the private chat.
- [ ] You can also use the private chat if you need to say something, but you can also just say it out loud.
- [ ] If at any point you aren't comfortable talking about something, please either say so or let us know in the private chat, and we'll pivot away from that topic.
- [ ] Afterwards, we'll say goodbye to the stream, but please stay on past that so we can debrief and upload the local recording.
- [ ] Just in case one of us disconnects... the rest should stall for a minute and we'll be right back.

## Talking points

* Introductions
* Setting the stage
* Sizing Loki and Scaling Loki
* Announcement: Loki Sizing Guide
* Monitoring Capacity of your Loki Cluster

### Introductions

* What is our topic for today?
* Nicole and Jay introduce themselves
* Introduce Loki Helm Maintainers

* How long have you all been using Helm in general for?
* What do you like and what do you dislike about Helm?
* Simulary how long have you been using Loki for and how do you currently use it?

### Introducing the Loki Helm

* For our new guests, what is the purpose of the Loki Helm?
* What are the main components of the Loki Helm?
* What deployment modes do we support in the Loki Helm? 

### Best practises for deploying Loki using the Loki Helm

* What is the correct Helm chart to use?
* Is there any preperation you recommend doing before you start configuring the Loki Helm?
  - cluster preperation
  - Sizing
  - object storage
* If you are new to the Loki Helm what is the best way to structure your values.yaml?
  - deployment mode
  - compoenents
  - Loki config
* What are some of the common pitfalls you see people running into when using the Loki Helm?
* What are some of the best ways to test your Loki Helm configuration?

### Loki Helm contributions

* You all started reviewing PRs for the Loki helm I belive around 6.34.0. Since then what have been some of the biggest changes you have seen?
* When reviewing PRs what are some of the things you look for?
* What are some of challanges you see in the Loki Helms design?
* What are some of the improvments you are looking for in the future of the Loki Helm?
* The Loki helm has grown over the years, is there anything that you would recommend we remove or change in the future?


### Wrap up

* Huge thank you to Jan-Otto, Quentin, and Mike for joining us today!
* Current Loki Helm stats
* Where can people find you all?


## Post-show checklist

- [ ] Add timestamps to the video (at least four).
- [ ] Add any links shared to the description of the video.
- [ ] Add YouTube cards when relevant to certain points during the video.
- [ ] Add the video to video playlists that make sense (at the very least, the "Grafana Office Hours" one.)
- [ ] Download all videos for the recording on Streamyard and upload it [to this shared drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1sLnnYzmphet7K7QwogcZrYDI-Re07HS4) in the appropriate folder.
- [ ] Think about how you could repurpose this content. [This Loki Community Call](https://youtube.com/live/XJMQbEuBeMc) on Explore Logs was turned into [these](https://youtube.com/shorts/6RfI5UeJo08) [two shorts](https://youtube.com/shorts/jx1DATkGIz4) (*Short - Grafana Cloud Explore Apps for no-code querying of Loki, Mimir, Tempo, Pyroscope* and *Short - How to enable Explore Logs app for Grafana*) and [this shorter video](https://youtu.be/eXwE2vqLcyY) (*How to use the Explore Logs app for Grafana*) + docs.
- [ ] Update [Advocate Contributions sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1LataDRRX4DZy8VnCiBDXmynjmpOJdibM7ek_uvpim4Y/edit?gid=0#gid=0) with your work.
